html-css-javascript/step1.md, before:

###### Let's create some code

We will create a basic Hypertext Markup Language page, HTML page, and then add a form within the HTML page. This will be the start for other scenarios which will add additional elements to the HTML page within the **`<form>`** and **`</form>`** tags.

The application is to simulate an insurance quote application where a user completes a form and receives a quote amount.

The final code for the basic HTML page in the step will be:

```HTML
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>HTML Forms</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h1>Property Insurance Application</h1>
    <h3>GDC Insurance Limited</h3>
  </body>
</html>
```

While the final code in the step including the form tag, ```<form action=""> </form>```, will be:

```HTML
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>HTML Forms</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h1>Property Insurance Application</h1>
    <h3>GDC Insurance Limited</h3>

       <form action="">
       </form>
  </body>
</html>
```

In completing this scenario we can copy and paste the code included in these instructions **but it is much better to type the code yourself**. It is only by practice, making mistakes and correcting the mistakes that our learning is reinforced.

1. We will now open the HTML starter file by clicking on the link below:
   **`./assets/Step1StarterHTML.html`{{open}}**
  &nbsp;

2. Now add a title, **HTML Forms**, for the page by adding the text between the tags **`<title>`** and **`</title>`**.

   ```HTML
    <!DOCTYPE html>
      <html lang="en">  
      <head>
        <title>HTML Forms</title>
    </head>
    ```

3. Now add a h1 header, **Property Insurance Application**, to the page by adding the text between the tags **`<h1>`** and **`</h1>`**.

   ```HTML
    <!DOCTYPE html>
    <html lang="en">

    <head>
      <title>HTML Forms</title>
    </head>
    
    <body>
      <h1>Property Insurance Application</h1>
    ```

4. Now add a h3 header, **GDC Insurance Limited**, to the page by adding the text between the tags **`<h3>`** and **`</h3>`**.

   ```HTML
    <!DOCTYPE html>
    <html lang="en">

    <head>
      <title>HTML Forms</title>
    </head>

    <body>
      <h1>Property Insurance Application</h1>
      <h3>GDC Insurance Limited</h3>
   ```

5. Now add the tags required to create a HTML form. The form tag will have an opening tag, **`<form>`** and a matching closing tag **`</form>`**. The form in a HTML page will be located within the **`<body>`** and **`</body>`** tags as shown below:

    ```HTML
    <!DOCTYPE html>
    <html lang="en">

    <head>
        <title>HTML Forms</title>
    </head>

    <body>
        <h1>Property Insurance Application</h1>
        <h3>GDC Insurance Limited</h3>`

        <form action="">
        </form>

    </body>
    </html>
    ```

## CODE ANALYSIS

- the DOCTYPE declaration `<!DOCTYPE html>` defines the document type as HTML
- the HTML `<head>` element is a container for other tags such as `<title>, <style>, <meta>, <link>, <script>, <base>`
- the `<title>` element
  - defines the title of the document
  - must contain text-only
  - is required in HTML documents!
  - defines a title in the browser title bar of the pages tab
  - provides a title for the page when it is added to favourites
  - displays a title for the page in search engine-results

- HTML headings are defined with the `<h1>` to `<h6>` tags
  - `<h1>` defines the most important heading
  - `<h6>` defines the least important heading

- the HTML `<form>` tag is used to create an HTML form
- the HTML `</form>` tag is used to close the opening HTML form tag
- the HTML `<form>` tag can be used to manage where and how the details (values) from the form controls will be sent 
  - this is achieved by using the
     `<form action="" method="POST">`
  - we can also achieve the sending of the form data by using the
     `<form action="" method="GET">`

Commit message:

Added instructions to the intro and steps on installing the HTML preview extension

html-css-javascript/step1.md, after:

# IMPORTANT INFORMATION NEEDED TO PREVIEW THE HTML PAGES

Whilst HTML is supported 'straight out of the box' in Visual Studio Code and the editor helps us code correctly **there is no HTML preview** without installing an extension. So we need to install a extension such as **HTML Preview** from the **VS Code Marketplace**.

## Installing HTML Preview

With Visual Studio Code open:

- click on the **Extensions** icon

![VS Code Extensions icon!](./assets/marketplaceicon.png "VS Code Extensions icon")
- type HTML Preview in the search box
- choose the HTML Preview extension that appears at the top, as shown in the image
  ![HTML Preview Extension!](./assets/htmlpreview.png "HTML Preview Extension")
- click on the **Install** button
- click on the Reload button, to reload the Visual Studio Code editor
    ![Reload Visual Studio Code editor!](./assets/reload.png "Reload Visual Studio Code editor")

Now when we have our HTML code open in Visual Studio Code we can preview it by using the command relevant to our computer:
- if we use a Mac   - command+shift+v
- if we use Windows - ctrl+shift+v

###### Let's create some code

We will create a basic Hypertext Markup Language page, HTML page, and then add a form within the HTML page. This will be the start for other scenarios which will add additional elements to the HTML page within the **`<form>`** and **`</form>`** tags.

The application is to simulate an insurance quote application where a user completes a form and receives a quote amount.

The final code for the basic HTML page in the step will be:

```HTML
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>HTML Forms</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h1>Property Insurance Application</h1>
    <h3>GDC Insurance Limited</h3>
  </body>
</html>
```

While the final code in the step including the form tag, ```<form action=""> </form>```, will be:

```HTML
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>HTML Forms</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h1>Property Insurance Application</h1>
    <h3>GDC Insurance Limited</h3>

       <form action="">
       </form>
  </body>
</html>
```

In completing this scenario we can copy and paste the code included in these instructions **but it is much better to type the code yourself**. It is only by practice, making mistakes and correcting the mistakes that our learning is reinforced.

1. We will now open the HTML starter file by clicking on the link below:
   **`./assets/Step1StarterHTML.html`{{open}}**
  &nbsp;

2. Now add a title, **HTML Forms**, for the page by adding the text between the tags **`<title>`** and **`</title>`**.

   ```HTML
    <!DOCTYPE html>
      <html lang="en">  
      <head>
        <title>HTML Forms</title>
    </head>
    ```

3. Now add a h1 header, **Property Insurance Application**, to the page by adding the text between the tags **`<h1>`** and **`</h1>`**.

   ```HTML
    <!DOCTYPE html>
    <html lang="en">

    <head>
      <title>HTML Forms</title>
    </head>
    
    <body>
      <h1>Property Insurance Application</h1>
    ```

4. Now add a h3 header, **GDC Insurance Limited**, to the page by adding the text between the tags **`<h3>`** and **`</h3>`**.

   ```HTML
    <!DOCTYPE html>
    <html lang="en">

    <head>
      <title>HTML Forms</title>
    </head>

    <body>
      <h1>Property Insurance Application</h1>
      <h3>GDC Insurance Limited</h3>
   ```

5. Now add the tags required to create a HTML form. The form tag will have an opening tag, **`<form>`** and a matching closing tag **`</form>`**. The form in a HTML page will be located within the **`<body>`** and **`</body>`** tags as shown below:

    ```HTML
    <!DOCTYPE html>
    <html lang="en">

    <head>
        <title>HTML Forms</title>
    </head>

    <body>
        <h1>Property Insurance Application</h1>
        <h3>GDC Insurance Limited</h3>`

        <form action="">
        </form>

    </body>
    </html>
    ```

6. Preview the code using the HTML Preview command relevant to your computer e.g. command+shift+v.

7. Return to the HTML code by repeating the HTML Preview command e.g. command+shift+v.

## CODE ANALYSIS

- the DOCTYPE declaration `<!DOCTYPE html>` defines the document type as HTML
- the HTML `<head>` element is a container for other tags such as `<title>, <style>, <meta>, <link>, <script>, <base>`
- the `<title>` element
  - defines the title of the document
  - must contain text-only
  - is required in HTML documents!
  - defines a title in the browser title bar of the pages tab
  - provides a title for the page when it is added to favourites
  - displays a title for the page in search engine-results

- HTML headings are defined with the `<h1>` to `<h6>` tags
  - `<h1>` defines the most important heading
  - `<h6>` defines the least important heading

- the HTML `<form>` tag is used to create an HTML form
- the HTML `</form>` tag is used to close the opening HTML form tag
- the HTML `<form>` tag can be used to manage where and how the details (values) from the form controls will be sent 
  - this is achieved by using the
     `<form action="" method="POST">`
  - we can also achieve the sending of the form data by using the
     `<form action="" method="GET">`
