html-css-javascript/step8.md, before:

###### Let's create some code

Now we have the HTML form with controls, we will add additional controls to the form. In this step we will add input controls for a **date**, a **time** and a **datetime-local** which will display the date in two formats and the time.

In completing this scenario remember we can copy and paste the code included in these instructions **but it is much better to type the code yourself**. It is only by practice, making mistakes and correcting the mistakes that our learning is reinforced.

Continuing within the **`<form>`** and **`</form>`** tags we will add an additional control.

1. We will now open the HTML starter file by clicking on the link below, this is the file we have just created in the previous step:
   **`./assets/Step8StarterHTML.html`{{open}}**
     &nbsp;

2. Now add a label and an input control of type **date** which will display a date picker control where the user will be able to choose a date in the range from the minimum date to the maximum date.
   &nbsp;

   ```HTML
    <!--  Start of row 15 -->
    <label for="insurancestartdate">Insurance Start Date:</label>
    <input type="date" id=" insurancestartdate " name="insurancestartdate" min="2022-01-01" max="2022-12-31" />
    <!--  End of row 15 -->
    <br />
    ```

3. Now add a label and an input control of type **time** which will display a time picker control where the user will be able to choose a time in the range from the minimum time of 00:00:00.
   &nbsp;

    ```HTML
    <!--  Start of row 16 -->
    <label for="insurancestarttime">Insurance Start Time:</label>
    <input type="time" id="insurancestarttime" name="insurancestarttime" min="00:00:00" />
    <!--  End of row 16 -->
    <br />
    ```

4. Now add a label and an input control of type **datetime-local** which will display a control where the user will be able to choose a date and a time from the picker control.
   &nbsp;

    ```HTML
    <!--  Start of row 17 -->
    <label for="datetimeofinsurancestart">Insurance Start Date and Time:</label>
    <input type="datetime-local" id="datetimeofinsurancestart" name="datetimeofinsurancestart" />
    <!--  End of row 17 -->
    <br />
   ```

## CODE ANALYSIS

### DATE

- the **date** input type is widely used across many applications and offers the user a quick way to input a date.
- the HTML date picker option is built into the browser.  
- the date input can be made flexible and will allow the user to select a single date, select a week, select a month, select a time, select a date and time, and even date and time with a time zone using the different input types.
- the format for the date input type is:
   ``<input type="date" id="dateofinsurance" name="dateofinsurance">``
- like the number input type we can add additional attributes for the min and max dates to ensure our user can only choose from a specified date range. An example is:
   ``<input type="date" id="dateofinsurance" name="dateofinsurance" min="2000-01-01" max="2019-01-01" >``

### TIME

- the **time** input is widely used across many applications and offers the user a quick way to input a time.
- the HTML time picker option is built into the browser.  
- the time input can be made flexible and will allow the user to select a time.
- the format for the time input type is:
   ``<input type="time" id=" timeofinsurancestart" name=" timeofinsurancestart">``
- like the number input type we can add additional attributes for the min and max dates to ensure our user can only choose from a specified time range. An example is:
   ``<input type="time" id="timeofinsurancestart" name="timeofinsurancestart" min=”10:00:00” max=”23:00:00”>``

### DATETIME-LOCAL

- the **datetime-local** input type is widely used across many applications and offers the user a quick way to input a date and time as one object.
- the HTML datetime-local picker option is built into the browser.  
- the datetime-local input can be made flexible and will allow the user to select a date with a time.
- the format for the datetime-local input type is:
   ``<input type="datetime-local" id=" datetimeofinsurance" name=" datetimeofinsurance">``
- like the number input type we can add additional attributes for the min and max dates to ensure our user can only choose from a specified range. An example is:
   ``<input type="datetime-local" id="datetimeofinsurance" name="datetimeofinsurance" min=”10:00:00” max=”23:00:00”>``

Commit message:

Added instructions to the intro and steps on installing the HTML preview extension

html-css-javascript/step8.md, after:

###### Let's create some code

Now we have the HTML form with controls, we will add additional controls to the form. In this step we will add input controls for a **date**, a **time** and a **datetime-local** which will display the date in two formats and the time.

In completing this scenario remember we can copy and paste the code included in these instructions **but it is much better to type the code yourself**. It is only by practice, making mistakes and correcting the mistakes that our learning is reinforced.

Continuing within the **`<form>`** and **`</form>`** tags we will add an additional control.

1. We will now open the HTML starter file by clicking on the link below, this is the file we have just created in the previous step:
   **`./assets/Step8StarterHTML.html`{{open}}**
     &nbsp;

2. Now add a label and an input control of type **date** which will display a date picker control where the user will be able to choose a date in the range from the minimum date to the maximum date.
   &nbsp;

   ```HTML
    <!--  Start of row 15 -->
    <label for="insurancestartdate">Insurance Start Date:</label>
    <input type="date" id=" insurancestartdate " name="insurancestartdate" min="2022-01-01" max="2022-12-31" />
    <!--  End of row 15 -->
    <br />
    ```

3. Now add a label and an input control of type **time** which will display a time picker control where the user will be able to choose a time in the range from the minimum time of 00:00:00.
   &nbsp;

    ```HTML
    <!--  Start of row 16 -->
    <label for="insurancestarttime">Insurance Start Time:</label>
    <input type="time" id="insurancestarttime" name="insurancestarttime" min="00:00:00" />
    <!--  End of row 16 -->
    <br />
    ```

4. Now add a label and an input control of type **datetime-local** which will display a control where the user will be able to choose a date and a time from the picker control.
   &nbsp;

    ```HTML
    <!--  Start of row 17 -->
    <label for="datetimeofinsurancestart">Insurance Start Date and Time:</label>
    <input type="datetime-local" id="datetimeofinsurancestart" name="datetimeofinsurancestart" />
    <!--  End of row 17 -->
    <br />
   ```

5. Preview the code using the HTML Preview command relevant to your computer e.g. command+shift+v.

6. Return to the HTML code by repeating the HTML Preview command e.g. command+shift+v.

## CODE ANALYSIS

### DATE

- the **date** input type is widely used across many applications and offers the user a quick way to input a date.
- the HTML date picker option is built into the browser.  
- the date input can be made flexible and will allow the user to select a single date, select a week, select a month, select a time, select a date and time, and even date and time with a time zone using the different input types.
- the format for the date input type is:
   ``<input type="date" id="dateofinsurance" name="dateofinsurance">``
- like the number input type we can add additional attributes for the min and max dates to ensure our user can only choose from a specified date range. An example is:
   ``<input type="date" id="dateofinsurance" name="dateofinsurance" min="2000-01-01" max="2019-01-01" >``

### TIME

- the **time** input is widely used across many applications and offers the user a quick way to input a time.
- the HTML time picker option is built into the browser.  
- the time input can be made flexible and will allow the user to select a time.
- the format for the time input type is:
   ``<input type="time" id=" timeofinsurancestart" name=" timeofinsurancestart">``
- like the number input type we can add additional attributes for the min and max dates to ensure our user can only choose from a specified time range. An example is:
   ``<input type="time" id="timeofinsurancestart" name="timeofinsurancestart" min=”10:00:00” max=”23:00:00”>``

### DATETIME-LOCAL

- the **datetime-local** input type is widely used across many applications and offers the user a quick way to input a date and time as one object.
- the HTML datetime-local picker option is built into the browser.  
- the datetime-local input can be made flexible and will allow the user to select a date with a time.
- the format for the datetime-local input type is:
   ``<input type="datetime-local" id=" datetimeofinsurance" name=" datetimeofinsurance">``
- like the number input type we can add additional attributes for the min and max dates to ensure our user can only choose from a specified range. An example is:
   ``<input type="datetime-local" id="datetimeofinsurance" name="datetimeofinsurance" min=”10:00:00” max=”23:00:00”>``
