html-css-javascript/step4.md, before:

###### Let's create some code

Now we have the HTML form with some input boxes and a select control, we will add an additional control to the form. In this step we will add an input control for a **range** which will display a **slider** and when move the value will change.

In completing this scenario remember we can copy and paste the code included in these instructions **but it is much better to type the code yourself**. It is only by practice, making mistakes and correcting the mistakes that our learning is reinforced.

Continuing within the **`<form>`** and **`</form>`** tags we will add an additional control.

1. We will now open the HTML starter file by clicking on the link below, this is the file we have just created in the previous step:
   **`./assets/Step4StarterHTML.html`{{open}}**
     &nbsp;

2. Now add a label and an input control of type **range** which will allow the user to slide the controller to choose a price.

   - do not concern yourself with oninput part. 
   - this control includes **attributes** that set the **minimum** and **maximum** values.
   &nbsp;

   ```HTML
      <!--  Start of row 9 -->
      <label for="homevalue">Current Property Value</label>
      <input type="range" id="homevalue" name="homevalue"value="00" min="0" max="5000000" oninput="document.getElementById('propertyprice').innerHTML = this.value"/>
      <label id="propertyprice"></label>
      <!--  End of row 9 -->
      <br />
   ```

## CODE ANALYSIS

- the input element is used to accept user input and here we have a **range** type declared so the user simply drags a shape along a **slider** which represents a **scale from a start value to an end value**.  
- features of the range element are:
  - they let the user specify a numeric value which must be no less than a developer set minimum value and no more than a developer set maximum value
  - the precise value will be visibile only by using JavaScript

Commit message:

Added instructions to the intro and steps on installing the HTML preview extension

html-css-javascript/step4.md, after:

###### Let's create some code

Now we have the HTML form with some input boxes and a select control, we will add an additional control to the form. In this step we will add an input control for a **range** which will display a **slider** and when move the value will change.

In completing this scenario remember we can copy and paste the code included in these instructions **but it is much better to type the code yourself**. It is only by practice, making mistakes and correcting the mistakes that our learning is reinforced.

Continuing within the **`<form>`** and **`</form>`** tags we will add an additional control.

1. We will now open the HTML starter file by clicking on the link below, this is the file we have just created in the previous step:
   **`./assets/Step4StarterHTML.html`{{open}}**
     &nbsp;

2. Now add a label and an input control of type **range** which will allow the user to slide the controller to choose a price.

   - do not concern yourself with oninput part. 
   - this control includes **attributes** that set the **minimum** and **maximum** values.
   &nbsp;

   ```HTML
      <!--  Start of row 9 -->
      <label for="homevalue">Current Property Value</label>
      <input type="range" id="homevalue" name="homevalue"value="00" min="0" max="5000000" oninput="document.getElementById('propertyprice').innerHTML = this.value"/>
      <label id="propertyprice"></label>
      <!--  End of row 9 -->
      <br />
   ```

3. Preview the code using the HTML Preview command relevant to your computer e.g. command+shift+v.

4. Return to the HTML code by repeating the HTML Preview command e.g. command+shift+v.

## CODE ANALYSIS

- the input element is used to accept user input and here we have a **range** type declared so the user simply drags a shape along a **slider** which represents a **scale from a start value to an end value**.  
- features of the range element are:
  - they let the user specify a numeric value which must be no less than a developer set minimum value and no more than a developer set maximum value
  - the precise value will be visibile only by using JavaScript
